  Write a function to find out duplicate words in a given string?
  Find the missing number in an array?
  Q. Write a program to generate random numbers between the given range?
  Q. Write a java program to swap two string variables without using temp variable?
  Q. Write a java program to Move all zeroes to end of array?
  Q. Write a multi-threading program to print odd number using one thread and even number using other?
  Q. How to print all permutations of a String in Java?
  Q. Reverse the string with preserving the position of spaces
  Q. How do you find longest substring without repeating characters in a string?
  Q. A Program to check if strings are rotations of each other or not?
  Q. Can you write a regular expression to check if String is a number?
  Q. Write a program to find top two maximum numbers in an array?
  Q. How to find all the leaders in an integer array in java?
  Q. Write a java program to find number of characters, number of words and number of lines in a text file?
  Q. Find all pairs of elements whose sum is equal to given number?
  Q. Program to convert lower to upper case without using toUppercase()?
  Q. Write a program to create deadlock between two threads?
  Q. How to find the word with the highest frequency from a file in Java?
  Q. How to sort a text file in java?
  Q. Find middle index of array where both ends sum is equal?
  Q. What do the expression 1.0 / 0.0 will return? will it throw Exception? any compile time error?
  Q. How do you check the equality of two arrays in java?
  Q. How to remove duplicate elements from ArrayList in java?
  Q. Write a java program to append text to a file?
  Q. Write a program to sort a map by value?
  Q. How to find duplicate number on Integer array in Java?
  Q. How to find largest and smallest number in unsorted array?
  Q. Write a Comparator in Java to compare two employees based upon their name, departments and age?
  Q. Write a program to convert Decimal To Binary, Decimal To Octal and Decimal to HexaDecimal in Java?
  Q. How to rearrange array in alternating positive and negative number?
  Q. How Convert lower to upper case without using toUppercase() in java?
  Q. Explain deadlock condition in-between two threads with example?
  Q. How do you sort out items in ArrayList in reverse direction?
  Q. Find the shortest-path weights d(s, v) from given source s for all vertices v present in the graph.






   Q. How to find if there is a sub array with sum equal to zero?
   Q. How to remove a given element from array in Java?
   Q. How to find trigonometric values of an angle in java?
   Q. Reverse and add until you get a palindrome
   Q. Selection sort in java Q. Write a singleton class in java?
   Q. How to calculate complexity of algorithm?
   Q. Implement Producer Consumer design Pattern in Java using wait, notify and notifyAll method in Java?
   Q. Find Minimum numbers of platforms required for railway station in java 38 Java Coding Questions
   Q. How to check whether given number is binary or not?
   Q. Armstrong number program in java
   Q. How to find sum of all digits of a number in java?
   Q. How to find largest number less than a given number and without a given digit?
   Q. Roman equivalent of a decimal number
   Q. How to check whether user input is number or not in java?
   Q. Write a program to convert decimal number to binary format.
   Q. Write a program to find perfect number or not.
   Q. Write a program to find sum of each digit in the given number using recursion.
   Q. Write a program to check the given number is a prime number or not?
   Q. Write a program to check the given number is binary number or not?
   Q. Find prime factors of number in java
   Q. Write code to avoid deadlock in Java where N threads are accessing N shared resources?
   Q. How to sort an array in place using QuickSort algorithm?
   Q. Write a program to find intersection of two sorted arrays in Java?
   Q. How find the first repeating element in an array of integers?
   Q. How to find first non-repeating element in array of integers?
   Q. How to find top two numbers from an integer array? 39 Java Coding Questions
   Q. How to find the smallest positive integer value that cannot be represented as sum of any subset of a given array?
   Q. How to merge sorted array?
   Q. How to find sub array with maximum sum in an array of positive and negative number?
   Q. How to find sub array with largest product in array of both positive and negative number?
   Q. Write a program to find length of longest consecutive sequence in array of integers?
   Q. How to find minimum value in a rotated sorted array?
   Q. Given an array of of size n and a number k, find all elements that appear more than n/k times?
   Q. Returns the largest sum of contiguous integers in the array
   Q. Return the sum two largest integers in an array
   Q. How to search an array to check if an element exists there?
   Q. How to copy array in Java?
   Q. Write a function to find out longest palindrome in a given string?
   Q. Can you make array volatile in Java?
   Q. How to find top two numbers from an integer array in Java?
   Q. Can you pass the negative number as an array size?
   Q. What is an anonymous array? Give example?
   Q. What is the difference between int[] a and int a[] ?
   Q. What are jagged arrays in java? Give example? 40 Java Coding Questions
   Q. While creating the multidimensional arrays, can you specify an array dimension after an empty dimension?
   Q. How to reverse Singly Linked List?
   Q. Create a Java program to find middle node of linked list in Java in one pass?
   Q. How to find if a linked list contains cycle or not in Java?
   Q. How to find nth element from end of linked list
   Q. How to check if linked list is palindrome in java
   Q. Add two numbers represented by linked list in java
   Q. How to sort a Stack using a temporary Stack?
   Q. Implement Binary Search Tree (BST)
   Q. Find min and max value from Binary Search Tree (BST)
   Q. Find height of a Binary Search Tree (BST)
   Q. Implement Binary Search Tree (BST) Level order traversal (breadth first).
   Q. Implement Binary Search Tree (BST) pre-order traversal (depth first).
   Q. Implement Binary Search Tree (BST) in-order traversal (depth first).
   Q. Implement Binary Search Tree (BST) post-order traversal (depth first).
   Q. How to check the given Binary Tree is Binary Search Tree (BST) or not?
   Q. How to delete a node from Binary Search Tree (BST)? 41 Java Coding Questions
   Q. Binary tree level order traversal Q. Binary tree spiral order traversal
   Q. Binary tree reverse level order traversal Q. Binary tree boundary traversal
   Q. Print leaf nodes of binary tree Q. Count leaf nodes in binary tree
   Q. Get maximum element in binary tree
   Q. Print all paths from root to leaf in binary tree
   Q. Print vertical sum of binary tree in java
   Q. Get level of node in binary tree in java
   Q. Lowest common ancestor(LCA) in binary tree in java
   Q. Search element in row wise and column wise sorted matrix
   Q. Stock buy and sell to maximize profit.
   Q. How to implement merge sort in java
   Q. How to implement bubble sort in java
   Q. How to implement insertion sort in java
   Q. Write a program to implement hashcode and equals.
   Q. Write wait-notify code for producer-consumer problem?
   Q. Write a program to implement ArrayList.
   Q. A maximal subarray
   Q. Sort a linked list 42 Java Coding Questions
   Q. Iterative Quick sort Q. Bucket sort
   Q. Counting sort Q. Square root of number
   Q. Printing patterns Q. Leap year
   Q. Design a Vending Machine
   Q. Transpose a matrix
   Q. Adding two matrices in Java
   Q. Matrix multiplication
   Q. Write a java program to print Floyd’s Triangle?
   Q. Spiral Matrix Program.
   Q. Anagram program in java
   Q. Write a program to print fibonacci series.
   Q. How to you calculate the difference between two dates in Java?
   Q. Java Program to find gcd and lcm of two numbers
   Q. Write a program to find the sum of the first 1000 prime numbers?
   Q. How to perform matrix operations in java?